# Lamar-Research
Throughout the spring 2019 semester, I worked with the Shiny package from R-Studio to create an interactive web application to visualize data to gain experience before working on Qubes or Serenity, which will be published for educational use.  At the beginning of the semester, I requested data about animal shelters from the Virginia Office of Animal Care.  I spent the majority of my time manipulating this data into data tables that could be used for plotting or creating tables that users can interact with.  My first goal was to create a map plotting all of the animal shelters in Virginia using the leaflet package.  I used the dplyr package from R-Studio to select columns containing the name and zipcode of every animal shelter.  However, leaflet maps need latitude and longitude inputs, not just zipcodes.  I then found the Zipcode package from R-Studio and used dyplr to join the two data tables so that each zipcode is matched up with its respective latitude and longitude, which allowed leaflet to actually plot.
In the data I received from the Office of Animal Care, each animal shelter has data for different years (between 2012-2018) and there is missing statistics in many columns.  The expected data includes the number of animals on hand on January 1st of that year, the number of animals transferred in and out, the number of animals adopted and relinquished, and the number of animals euthanized and died.  In an effort to create a website that offers useful information for those who work in or with such shelters, I worked with Dr.LaMar to think about how to most effectively show the data.  I created an interactive data table where users can either scroll through all of the available data (which is organized by column) or select a year and/or name of an animal shelter to immediately get that information.
Currently, I am working on connecting the plot and then data table so that selecting an animal shelter in the table will change the color of the dot representing the corresponding animal shelter on the map.  I also want to allow users to select a range of years to see data from by using a slider bar.
Overall, I vastly improved my computational skills and also thought about how to display data in a clear way to users.  I hope to continue working with Dr.LaMar to develop the Serenity package, which will allow students to visualize datasets and actually see the R code that creates the plots as they learn how to code in R.
